.TH man 1 "28 March 2016" "0.5.6" "subuser man page"
.SH NAME
subuser \- install, administer, and run desktop applications with Docker.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B subuser [SUBCOMMAND] [SUBCOMMAND ARGS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
subuser allows you to install and administer desktop applications contained using Docker. This is useful if you need to provide portability across Linux distributions or hightened security. The applications have limited access to the main system and user files. Access is granted solely through a whitelisting permissions file.
.SH OPTIONS
Pass the
.B --help
option to any subcommand in order to find its options.
The following subcommands are available:
.TP
.BR subuser
Add, remove, and configure subusers
.TP
.BR run
Run subusers
.TP
.BR repository
Add and configure repositories
.TP
.BR update
Update subuser images
.TP
.BR remove-old-images
Remove unused images to free up disk space
.TP
.BR registry
Interact with the subuser registry
.TP
.BR list
List subusers and images
.TP
.BR describe
Describe subusers and images
.TP
.BR repair
Repair your subuser installation. Usefull after migrating to a new system.
.TP
.BR pkg
Create new subuser images
.TP
.BR dev
Use subuser to create portable and reproducible dev environments
.TP
.BR version
Print subuser's version information
.SH EXAMPLES
To create a subuser named web-browsing based on the iceweasel image
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ subuser subuser add web-browsing iceweasel@default
.RE
.fi
.PP
To run that subuser
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ subuser run web-browsing
.RE
.fi
.PP
To create a second subuser, also based on the iceweasel image, but this time reserved for internet banking
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ subuser subuser add internet-banking iceweasel@default
.RE
.fi
.PP
To run that subuser
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ subuser run internet-banking
.RE
.fi
.PP
To add a subuser to the PATH
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ subuser subuser add-to-path internet-banking
.RE
.fi
.PP
To update your subuser images
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ subuser update all
.RE
.fi
.PP
All updates are atomic, and you can continue to use your subusers while the update command is running.
If you find that an older version of a subuser's image was better, you can always roll back the update for that subuser
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ subuser registry log
$ subuser lock-subuser-to internet-banking <commit-hash-from-log>
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Timothy Hobbs (timothy.hobbs.cz)
